[SRVCOM-2368] Serverless multitenant istio docs (#68618)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-ossm-traffic-isolation-architecture.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="serverless-ossm-traffic-isolation-architecture_context"]
= High-level architecture

> The high-level architecture of {ServerlessProductShortName} traffic isolation provided by {SMProductShortName} consists of `AuthorizationPolicies` in the `knative-serving`, `knative-eventing` and the tenants namespaces, with all the components being part of the {SMProductShortName}. The injected {SMProductShortName} sidecars enforce those rules to isolate network traffic between tenants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The high-level architecture of {ServerlessProductShortName} traffic isolation provided by {SMProductShortName} consists of `AuthorizationPolicy` objects in the `knative-serving`, `knative-eventing`, and the tenants' namespaces, with all the components being part of the {SMProductShortName}. The injected {SMProductShortName} sidecars enforce those rules to isolate network traffic between tenants.
```
Not sure where the apostrophe should go (singular tenant vs plural tenants).

> The high-level architecture of {ServerlessProductShortName} traffic isolation provided by {SMProductShortName} consists of `AuthorizationPolicies` in the `knative-serving`, `knative-eventing` and the tenants namespaces, with all the components being part of the {SMProductShortName}. The injected {SMProductShortName} sidecars take care of enforcing those rules to isolate network traffic between tenants.

Reviewer 2: Rewrite to reduce wordiness: "The injected {SMProductShortName} sidecars enforce those rules to isolate network traffic between tenants."

[id="serverless-ossm-traffic-isolation-architecture-serving"]
== Knative Serving

> The Knative Serving adheres to the following architecture:

Reviewer 3: Maybe drop the "the". "The Knative Serving" sounds a bit strange.

image::multi-tenancy-service-mesh-serving.png[Knative Serving architecture]

The following relationships apply:

. Workloads in project `tenant-2` can not call workloads in project `tenant-1` directly. Requests are rejected in the Istio proxies of `tenant-1` workloads.

> . Workloads in project `tenant-2` can not call workloads in project `tenant-1` through `ingress-gateway`. Requests are rejected in the Istio proxies of `tenant-1` workloads.

Reviewer 4: Should we use `istio-ingressgateway` instead of `ingress-gateway`? When it's enclosed in apostrophes it should probably mean some real component. But nothing like `ingress-gateway` exists. Or we could use just "ingress gateway" so that we speak more generally.

> . Workloads in project `tenant-2` cannot call workloads in project `tenant-1` through activator. Requests are rejected in the Istio proxy of the activator component. Since ingress gateway is allowed to call activator, this includes requests from project `tenant-2` through ingress gateway to activator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Workloads in project `tenant-2` cannot call workloads in project `tenant-1` through activator. Requests are rejected in the Istio proxy of the activator component. Because ingress gateways are allowed to call the activator, this includes requests from project `tenant-2` through ingress gateway to the activator.
```
"Because" instead of "Since" is better for translation. Also "ingress gateway is allowed" singular sounded strange, and plain "activator" without a "the" sounds strange, but disregard both if they're intentional.

> . Workloads in project `tenant-2` can not call workloads in project `tenant-1` through activator. Requests are rejected in the Istio proxy of the activator component. Since ingress gateway is allowed to call activator, this includes requests from project `tenant-2` through ingress gateway to activator.

Reviewer 2: Use "cannot" rather than "can not".

> . `AuthorizationPolicies` are applied in this project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. `AuthorizationPolicy` objects are applied in this project.
```

[id="serverless-ossm-traffic-isolation-architecture-eventing"]
== Knative Eventing

> The Knative Serving adheres to the following architecture:

Reviewer 3: Eventing, maybe also without "the"?

image::multi-tenancy-service-mesh-eventing.png[Knative Eventing architecture]

The following relationships apply:

. Workloads in `tenant-1` project can send events to Eventing brokers, channels, and sinks endpoints in the `tenant-1` project.

> . Eventing sources, triggers and subscriptions in project `tenant-1` can send events to workloads in project `tenant-1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Eventing sources, triggers, and subscriptions in project `tenant-1` can send events to workloads in the `tenant-1` project.
```
Moved "project" for consistency with the other bullets.

> . Workloads in `tenant-1` project cannot send events to Eventing brokers, channels, and sinks endpoints in the `tenant-2` project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Workloads in the `tenant-1` project cannot send events to Eventing brokers, channels, and sinks endpoints in the `tenant-2` project.
```

> . Workloads in `tenant-1` project can not send events to Eventing brokers, channels, and sinks endpoints in the `tenant-2` project.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above.

> . Eventing sources, triggers and subscriptions in project `tenant-2` cannot send events to workloads in project `tenant-1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Eventing sources, triggers, and subscriptions in the `tenant-2` project cannot send events to workloads in `tenant-1` project.
```

> . Workloads in project `tenant-1` cannot call workloads in project `tenant-2` as well as workloads in project `tenant-2` cannot call workloads in project `tenant-1`.

Reviewer: Same re: move all of the "project"s.

> . Workloads in project `tenant-1` can not call workloads in project `tenant-2` as well as workloads in project `tenant-2` can not call workloads in project `tenant-1`.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above.

> . `AuthorizationPolicies` are applied in this project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. `AuthorizationPolicy` objects are applied in this project.
```
